So for this demo, again, we're going to have a Person type,
so we'll have final class Person.
I've also got a class called PersonCleaner,
and the PersonCleaner class is the thing that's going to clean up
our Person type when we're finished with it.
We said that we would use this to create a class derived from a reference type.
So I need a new class, and let's call this PersonWeakReference,
and PersonWeakReference will extend WeakReference. And it'll extend
WeakReference of Person, and this thing will need a constructor.
So for this constructor, as well as passing in a Person and a ReferenceQueue,
we're also going to pass in a PersonCleaner,
and we'll just call this thing cleaner.
And then we'll bind our PersonCleaner to a field in the object.
So we'll call super, and then we'll say this.cleaner = cleaner.
Then on the reference type, we'll have a public void clean method.
And then in the clean method, we'll do cleaner.clean.
And then we'll add this clean method to our PersonCleaner.
And in here for now, we'll just print out cleaned.
So now to use this, we'll create a Person object.
We'll create a ReferenceQueue object, maybe a ReferenceQueue of type Person.
We'll create a PersonCleaner object,
and we'll create a PersonWeakReference object,
so PersonWeakReference weakReference = new PersonWeakReference,
and this thing will take a reference to person p,
the PersonCleaner that we call cleaner, and the ReferenceQueue.
So now we have a weak reference to a person object.
If we set p to null and call System.gc, when the garbage collector runs,
the weak reference will now be added to the reference queue.
So if I say PersonWeakReference wr = referenceQueue.remove,
we'll get back our weak reference.
I surround this with a try‑catch.
I cast this to be the write type, and from here,
I can call wr.clean to clean up the reference.
And at this point, the reference should be returned,
and we should print out cleaned.
And there we go, we print out the message cleaned.
However,
this isn't particularly satisfactory as I'm just calling
all of this code on the same thread.
We'd like to execute this code on a background thread,
and we can do that by using Java's executor service.
So the code will be something like this.
I can say ExecutorService executorService =
Executors.newSingleThreadExecutor, so create me an executor service
that'll execute on a single thread. I can then call executorService.execute,
and execute takes a runnable.
So here I can say new Runnable, which provides me with a run method.
Then inside the Runnable, I'm simply going to place the code from here.
So I want to take this weak reference code and place that inside the runnable.
Now ReferenceQueue now is inside the Runnable method, so we need to make
this a final so that the thread can see it. But apart from that, the code
inside here should be exactly the same. So what'll happen here, we create
all the objects that we need.
We create the executor service, and this thing will start running immediately.
However,
this is running on a background thread, so at some
point in the future, this will run.
We're not quite sure when it will run.
We then set a reference from object to null. We then call gc. What we'd
now like to happen is to wait just to make sure that the executor runs
and then shut down the executor service.
So I'm going to paste in some code here to do that.
So we create a new BufferedReader here and print out the message
saying press any key to continue. At this point,
we can wait until the executor runs.
We then enter a key and then shut down the executor and
shut down the rest of the application.
The key thing here is that the code in the executor is now
running on a background thread and doesn't interfere with the
main running of the application.
So we can use this to poll the reference queue and
just clean things up when we need to.
So if I run this code, so here we get the message, press any key to continue.
The executor has run. That's printed out the clean message.
We have cleaned things up.
And the application is still running,
waiting for input from the user. If I press Enter here, we exit the application.